Turkish (İnce Memed I - Yaşar Kemal)
Kayalıklar azıcık ötedeydi. Kayalıklara doğru var gücünü harcayarak yeniden koşmaya başladı. En yüksek kayanın altındaki çınar ağacına vardı. Ağacın dibi bir kuyu gibi derinlemesineydi. Sapsarı, altın renkli, kırmızı damarlı yapraklar ağacın dibini doldurmuş, gövdeyi yarı beline kadar örtmüştü. Kuru yapraklar hışır hışır ediyordu. Gitti, kendisini yaprakların üstüne attı.
Çınarın çıplak dallarından birisinin en ucunda bir kuş duruyordu, çıtırdıyı duyunca uçtu gitti. Yorgundu. Bitmişti. Burada, bu yaprakların üstünde gecelemeyi geçirdi aklından. Yumuşacık. Oturduğu yerden kalkamayabilir de.
Sonra, olmaz, dedi kendi kendine. Adamı kurt kuş yer. Ağacın üstünde kalmış yapraklardan birkaçı dolana dolana geldi öteki yaprakların üstüne düştü. Sonra boyuna birer ikişer düşmeye başladı.


English (Memed, My Hawk - Yasar Kemal, Chapter 2)
The rocks were only a little farther. With all his remaining strength he started to run toward them and soon reached the plane tree below the tallest. At the foot of the tree he found a deep hollow like a well, filled with yellow, golden, and red-veined leaves piled high. The dry leaves rustled as he threw himself down on them. On the tip of one bare branch of the tree a bird was perched, but it flew off, scared by the noise. The boy was tired and would have liked to spend the night there. But it occurred to him that this was impossible: the wilds were full of man-eating wolves and birds of prey. Some of the leaves still hanging from the tree floated down to join the others. One at a time they began to fall on his body.


Google Translate Version:
Rocks ötedeydi little. Spending power of the rocks have the right began to run again. Under the sycamore tree, had the highest rock. Derinlemesineydi bottom of the tree as a well. Yellow, gold-colored, red-veined leaves reached the bottom of the tree, the trunk up to his waist örtmüştü half. Rustling Rustling leaves were dry. Gone, threw himself on top of leaves.
The bird was standing at one of the branches of a bare plane, he flew çıtırdıyı heard. Tired. Was over. Here, we spend a night spent on the mind of the leaves. Velvety. Kalkamayabilir from his seat as well.
Then, no, he said to himself. Man of the wolf in the bird. A few leaves of the tree on the left was filled full of leaves on top of the other fell. Longitudinal Then one by one, began to fall.